### Research summary


My primary research interests are in the tools that cognitive scientists use,
including the conceptual, statistical, and computational tools. 

Specifically, I’m interested in the **conceptual foundations** of cognitive
science including notions of **representation** and **computation** and how
these relate to the kinds of **explanations** offered by the cognitive sciences
(e.g., see Colling & Roberts, 2009; Colling & Williamson, 2014; Williams &
Colling, 2018).

I also have an interest in the **statistical tools** used in psychological
science and cognitive science. Specifically, I am interested in notions of
**evidence** and debates between the **frequentists** and **Bayesians** (see
Lakens,…Colling,… et al, 2018; Colling & Szűcs, 2019). 

Finally, I'm also interested in **building tools** to help psychological
scientists. Some examples include tools that help psychological scientists to do
**reproducible research** (see Crüwell,…Colling,… et al, 2023), and tools to
improve their **statistical practice** (see Colling, 2022).





<!-- More recently, I have
also developed an interest in exploring the intersection between machine
learning, philosophy of neuroscience, and empirical neuroscience (see Williams &
Colling, 2018). This includes an interest in how neuroscientists use machine
learning as a tool, how machine learning analyses align with the explanatory
goals in neuroscience and the relationship between explanations in neuroscience
and cognitive science. I am also interested in using the conceptual tools from
philosophy of science and the social cognition literature to understand
explanation in ML/AI, and to explore notions of trust and transparency in AI/ML.

My empirical work often serves as the context for my theoretical work. For
example, I have conducted a number of studies of joint action and action
prediction (see Colling, Thompson & Sutton, 2014, 2016) and this has informed my
theoretical work in social cognition and allowed me to explore questions about
the nature of the representations that support social interaction (e.g.,
Colling, Knoblich & Sebanz, 2013; Colling, 2019; Colling & Williamson, 2014).
More recently, I have also conducted developmental studies which have allowed me
to explore how complex cognitive capacities are built up through development
(Colling, Noble, Goswami, 2017; Power, Colling, Mead, Barnes, Goswami, 2016),
and my studies in numerical cognition have allowed me to explore notions of
embodied representations (e.g., Colling et al 2020). --> 
